Migration from Semantic Kernel to Microsoft Agent Framework (#14)
marcgs/lob-agent-evaluation: docs/plans/20251007-semantic-kernel-to-agent-framework-migration.md

# Migration from Semantic Kernel to Microsoft Agent Framework Implementation Plan

**Issue:** #38 - Migration to Agent Framework  
**Created:** 2025-10-07  

> **Status:** 🟡 **In Progress - Phase 9 Complete, Phase 10 Outstanding**

Author: ```suggestion
**Status:** 🟢 ** Completed **
```

   - LLM-based evaluation needed for semantic understanding
   - Requires temperature=0.0 for consistent termination decisions
   - **Impact:** Complete rewrite of termination strategy + 176 lines of tests (Phase 7b)

6. **⚠️ Function Name Format Change (DISCOVERED)**
   - Semantic Kernel used plugin prefixes in function names (e.g., `PluginName-function_name`)
   - Agent Framework uses simple function names without prefixes (e.g., `function_name`)
   - Ground truth data and test expectations must be updated
   - **Impact:** All evaluation ground truth data required updates (Phase 7b)

### Testing Strategy

- **Unit Tests:** Run after each phase completion
- **Integration Tests:** Run after phases 2, 5, and 7
- **End-to-End Tests:** Run after phases 8 and 9
- **Performance Tests:** Run in phase 9
- **Rollback Testing:** Validate rollback capability before starting

## Success Criteria

The migration is complete when ALL of the following criteria are met:

1. **✅ Code Migration Complete**
   - All `semantic_kernel` imports replaced with `agent_framework` imports
   - All agents migrated from `ChatCompletionAgent` to `ChatAgent`
   - Kernel dependency completely removed

>    - All plugins converted to Agent Framework tools using `@ai_function` or plain functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - All plugins converted to Agent Framework tools using class methods or plain functions
```
